# Benefits of Cloud Computing #

## Cost effective ##
* Provides pay-as-you-go or consumption-based pricing model.
    * No upfront infrastructure costs.
    * No need to purchase and manage costly infrastructure/hardware that you may not use to its fullest.
    * The ability to pay for additional resources only when they are needed.
    * The ability to stop paying for resources that are no longer needed
## Scalable ##
* Increase or decrease the resources and services used based on the demand or workload at any given time.
* Cloud computing supports both
    * **Horizontal scaling**
      * Scaling "out"
      * Adding more servers that function together as one unit
    * **Vertical scaling**
      * Scaling "up"
      * Adding resources to increase the power of an existing server
          * e.g.Add more CPUs, or add more memory
## Relible ##
* Cloud provider offers data backup, disaster recovery, and data replication services.
* Redundancy is often built into cloud services architecture
   * So if one component fails, a backup component takes its place
   * this is referred to as fault tolerance and it ensures that your customers aren't impacted when a disaster occurs.
## Global ##
* Fully redundant datacenters located in various regions all over the globe.
* Enables local presence close to your customers to give them the best response time
* Replicate your services into multiple regions for redundancy and locality
* Select a specific region to ensure you meet data-residency and compliance laws for your customers.



